The purpose of the “example_JEBS.R” file is to illustrate how to obtain the results reported in Section 6 of the paper: 
Colombi, R., Giordano, S., & Tutz, G. (2021). A Rating Scale Mixture Model to Account for the Tendency to Middle and Extreme 
Categories. Journal of Educational and Behavioral Statistics, 46(6), 682-716. https://doi.org/10.3102/1076998621992554

The source files “margmod.R” and “Uhmmm_mainsource.R” include the core routines for parameter estimation and for computing standard errors under different working assumptions. 
These files also contain additional extensions that are not used in the paper.

The Results.xls file, provided in Excel format, contains two sheets (observed and latent) showing how to derive the model parameters from the output generated by “example_JEBS.R”, and how to reproduce Table 1 of the paper. 
By clicking on the cells containing the parameter values, the formulas can be inspected. 
The structure of the file assumes familiarity with the underlying philosophy of the hmmm R package 
(see Colombi, R., Giordano, S., & Cazzaro, M. (2014). hmmm: An R Package for Hierarchical Multinomial Marginal Models. Journal of Statistical Software, 59(11), 1–25. https://doi.org/10.18637/jss.v059.i11). 

The Excel file Results.xls is designed to facilitate both the construction and interpretation of the model parameters.

A file named “residuals” provides code for producing boxplots of residuals per strata.

Files Rd are the help pages of the main functions of our code. They contain also examples (one with three variables). Use the preview option to read them as HTML documents.

Questionnaire and data are at https://gssdataexplorer.norc.org/
